welcome to slash forward the channel
will be provide summarization and
commentary for all your favorite popular
and obscure horror movies in this video
we're going to recap the final
destination series by way of ranking out
the installments and just to be clear I
altogether enjoyed the series and I'm
excited that they have a new sequel it
will reboot in the works most of the
critical elements of this ranking are
for the purpose of comparison to sort
out why I put each film in its place
with that let's get started
[Music]
I'm not sure there's a clear winner for
the bottom spot so right now I have both
the final destination of the fourth
installments and final destination 3
tied for the same general reason these
two movies are essentially
interchangeable and offer very little to
move the series forward any new plot
devices or mechanisms by which the
characters come to learn about their
situation represent mostly superficial
additions we're not watching these
movies to find a new way to provide
groups of teens indications of how death
is coming we're watching an appreciation
of their collaborative struggles to
attempt to avoid an inevitable outcome
although if I had to choose I'd probably
place final destination 3 above the
final destination so I'll do them in
that order the final destination in
particular suffers from substandard CGI
and it reliance on visions to move the
plot forward there isn't much to explain
how the characters come to know or
understand the rules also while they
attempted to ramp up the carnage and
make the movie more fresh know how the
characters felt flat this doesn't feel
like the type of movie where it's ng to
have the racist character actually go so
far as to use the n-word it didn't feel
authentic or earned by the scripts the
third one had a somewhat uneven tone it
had some really good scenes overall and
was much more cinematic and feeleth in
the fourth movie which had a
straight-to-video quality to it but
number three also had some particularly
contrived deaths and yes they're all
contrived to a fairly significant degree
but but some of them go overboard if you
get my drift I'm talking about this
board here as an example it's hard to
believe that wouldn't have inadvertently
worked itself out on its own the movie
feels like a Coast's a bit on the
strengths of the series as a whole it
introduces knowledge of the first two
movies so it can yada-yada its way
through but without adding new elements
other than pictures providing portents
of doom
[Music]
next of the list is the fifth film this
is the first from this ranking that's
not only a good addition to the series
but that's attempting to add something
other than just bigger more complicated
kills unfortunately they also spend a
good amount of time wallowing in their
production value this one has a larger
scale but provides a ton of character
building in between all the story
elements this isn't necessarily a bad
thing but it slows it down a bit I found
my notes for the recap of this one to be
fairly sparse because there's a lot of
unnecessary events happening in between
the death sequences this is what happens
when you take the addition of all these
character driven scenes and intersperse
them among the necessary scenes of long
drawn-out tension-filled death sequences
and the funeral cemetery scenes that are
a staple of the series you end up eating
all your runtime and having a relatively
hollowed out plot in addition like most
of the series there's an attempt to add
or advance the rule based aspect of the
plot and like most of the rest of the
series it doesn't mean anything and
leaves us nowhere by the end of the
movie fun plot twists though
[Music]
the next Bond is taken by final
destination to which I consider to be
the only true sequel in the series it
extends the events of the original add
some new elements and rules and ramps up
the scale and does a pretty decent job
of pulling all these elements together
and is likely the most well produced the
sequels it tries to provide a direction
for the series to follow and branch out
from but no later sequels truly pick up
the baton and run with it unfortunately
[Music]
and finally the top spot sorry folks no
hot takes here after careful
consideration I have to place the
original in the top spot this was the
first time watch for me on the series so
I feel like I'm free of the clouding
effects of nostalgia so here's the
rundown the first one feels the most
polished of the entire series despite
its flaws it set up a few rules to guide
the action and generally follow them the
characters discovered the rules and the
impact of their actions in a generally
organic way it presented a novel and
interesting concept and laid out the
groundwork for the sequels we just never
fully arrived at a movie that truly
extends the universe these films occupy
in a meaningful way as a result we get a
series of movies that contain very
similar elements and unfold on the same
beats for the most part at times it
feels like the only significant
differences between each one or the
death sequences this makes each sequel
excessively derivative so if we're
judging the individual movies in a
series based on their overall quality as
a movie rather than by measuring the
titillation factor of their death scenes
I'm not sure I would be compelled by an
argument that doesn't place the original
on top and that's the ranking of the
final destination series in the next
video we're going to review the top 10
deaths next week we'll be moving on to a
new series so be sure to come back and
check it out I hope you enjoyed this
video and thanks for watching
[Music]